# Sombrero
Sombrero is my A-Level Computer Science project, focused on simulating the N-Body Problem, with a stretch goal of SPH for simulating star formation.

## Getting Started
These instructions will get a copy of the project running on your local machine, for development and testing purposes.

### Prerequisites
In order to produce the output `.mp4` files, you will need to have installed `avconv`.

```
sudo apt-get install libav-tools
```

### Installing from source
To download a copy of the repository, you will need to type the following commands:

```
git clone https://github.com/tvarnish/sombrero.git
cd sombrero/
make setup
```

## Usage
Once Sombrero has been installed from source, and you are in the `sombrero/` directory, run the software using:

```
./sombrero
```

## Initialisation files
Here is an example of an init file (this specific example will simulate the orbit of the Earth around the Sun!):

```
2,600,600,AU,100,kg
0,0,1.9891e30,0.0,0.0
-1,0,5.972e24,0.0,30e3
```

The first line describes the main parameters of the simulation, and the following lines describe each of the celestial bodies to be simulated. The first line is set out as follows:

```
Number of Bodies, Width, Height, Position Units, Scale, Mass Units
```

The `Width` and `Height` variables define the width and height of the output `.mp4` file.

Here, `Position Units` details what units the `x` and `y` coordinates are given in for each of the bodies in the initialisation file. It can be any one of the following values:

* **m** - Metres
* **AU** - Astronomical Units (Sun-Earth distance)
* **LYR** - Light Years
* **PC** - Parsecs
* **MPC** - Mega-Parsecs

The `Scale` variable defines the scale of the video output. It can be described as the pixels per unit length. In the example above, using the postion unit `AU`, it defines the scale as *100 pixels per AU*.

As with the `Position Units`, the `Mass Units` value defines the unit that the mass of each body in the simulation. It can be one of the following values:

* **kg** - Kilograms
* **M** - Solar Masses (Mass of the Sun)

## Output
The output files generated by the software follow the same structure as the initialisation files supplied to the software, as described above.

## Built with
* Atom - [atom.io](https://atom.io/)

## Authors
* Thomas Varnish - *Initial Work* - [tvarnish](https://github.com/tvarnish/)

See also the list of [contributors](https://github.com/tvarnish/sombrero/contributors).

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE.md](https://github.com/tvarnish/LICENSE.md) file for details.

## Acknowledgements
Inspiration for this project came from the [EAGLE Project](http://icc.dur.ac.uk/Eagle/), created at Durham University.
